# HousingLottery
Wellesley College CS230 (Data Structures) Final Project, extended into a year-long independent study. 

For our final project, we designed a program that can complete the Housing Lottery process by sorting Wellesley students into their residence halls once they are given their lottery number. The lottery works as follows: students are given their lottery numbers and options for what type of housing they can choose from. Rising sophomores are allowed to be in doubles and rising juniors and seniors can be in singles or doubles. Once students are given a lottery number, they can decide who they would like to room and/or block with. From there, students take the average of everyone in their block, list their dorm preferences (the dorm preferences for students in the same block must be the same), staple the forms together, and turn them in. The average becomes the group’s new lottery number. The housing department then places the blocks of students into dorms based on their lottery number. Blocks with the best lottery numbers are placed first. If there are enough rooms available in the block’s top choice dorm, they will be placed there. Otherwise, the housing department will then look to their second choice, third choice, etc. If a block does not get into any of the rooms they have placed down, they will become unhoused and their rooming assignment will be determined at a later date.

The intended user for this project is someone in the housing office. Our program assumes that the housing office either has all of the forms that the students have submitted, or has a file with all of the information collected from the students across campus. The user can either input the file or can individually add students and blocks. The user can also input a file and then add students. Our GUI has three tabs: an Instructions tab, an Add Student tab, and a Results tab. On the Instructions tab, the user can learn about how the program works and enter a file. On the Add Student tab, the user can input a student and their block. On the Results tab, the user can calculate the results of the lottery and see where students are placed. See the attached document for a drawn draft of the GUI design.
